# kickstarter-analysis
Module 1 Challenge
# Kickstarting with Excel
## Overview of Project
In this project, I've analyzed over 4000 kickstarter projects of various goals and outcomes across genres in film & video, food, games, journalism, music, photography, publishing, technology, and theater. I have filtered, conditioned and formatted the data spanning 4000+ kickstarter projects in order to find trends and provide conclusions relevant to the client's interest in kickstarter goals and outcomes, especially as they relate to the client's work in theater and plays. I've provided my findings in my analyses of outcomes based on launch datesand outcomes based on goals. Visualization of my findings are provided in graphs, located in the spreadsheet and separately as images in the directory titled 'Resources'.
### Purpose
The purpose of this project is to gain insight into kickstarter project goals and outcomes, especially as they relate to theater plays, where an outcome is success, failure, or cancellation of the kickstarter project. Specifically, this project aims to find trends in and provide feedback on kickstarter outcomes as they separetely relate to the kickstarter's goals and launchdates.  
## Analysis and Challenges
This section serves to discuss the analysis conducted on the dataset and any challenges that arose. One analysis of theater kickstarter outcomes based on kickstarter launch date. One analysis of kickstarter play outcomes based on kickstarter goals. One challenge occurred in the data analysis. COUNTIF formulas are not automatically adjusted from cell to cell according to the user's intention. Resolution for this issue is discussed below. 
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
The analysis of outcomes based on launch date displays all failed, canceled and successful theater kickstarter outcomes by month. The data is filtered with a pivot table filtering for Theater category kickstarters across all years 2009 through 2017 our dataset spans. The columns display successful, failed and canceled theater kickstarters by months displayed in the rows. A line 2D line graph with markers is used to visualize the data filtered and mapped in the pivot table.
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
The analysis of outcomes based on goals displays the percentage of all failed, canceled and successful kickstarter play outcomes by USD outcome ranges of less than 1000, 1000 to 4999, 5000 to 9999, 10000 to 14999, 15000 to 19999, 20000 to 24999, 25000 to 29999, 30000 to 34999, 35000 to 39999, 40000 to 44999, 45000 to 49999, and 50000+. The data is appropriately filtered from the datasent using a COUNTIF formula (link sheet). A corresponding 2D line graph is generated to visualize percentages of failed, canceled and successful kickstarter play outcomes by these USD goal outcomes (link graph).
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
A challenge was encountered during the analysis of kickstarter play outcomes based on goals. The COUNTIF formula does not correctly adjust in each cell according to its corresponding USD goal range or kickstarter play outcome when the initial formula is populated across all cells. In order to correct this issue, manual edits are made to the COUNTIF formula in each cell entry.
## Results
One conclusion drawn from the analysis of outcomes based on launch date is that, upon an initial look, May appears to be the best month to launch a theater kickstarter. Given our dataset, we can see our successful theater kickstarters peak at 111 during the month of May. While our failed theater kickstarters simultaneously peak in the month of May. Further analysis shows that about 67% of theater kickstarters launched in May have successful outcomes, greater than in any other month, supporting conclusion that May is the best month to launch a theater kickstarter. Another conclusion drawn from our analysis of outcomes based on launch date is that December is the worst month to launch a theater kickstarter. Upon inintial analysis of the data we find that the most theater kickstarter failures occured in May. However, upon further analysis, we find that only about 49% of theater kickstarters launched in December were successful. 49% is the minimum in our dataset for successful theater kickstarter outcomes by month. 
A conclusion drawn from from the analysis of outcomes based on goals is that, for plays, it is best when kickstarter goals are less than $1000. The analysis shows that, given our dataset, our percentage of successful kickstarter outcomes for plays peaks at 76% with goals less than $1000, and our percentage of failed outcomes hits a minimum of 24% in this same goal range.
Some limitations of this dataset are that there are very few datapoints for kickstarter plays within our larger goal ranges. There are 534 plays with USD kickstarter goal of 1000 to 4999, but only 5 plays with USD kickstarter goal 25000 to 29999, and only 1 play with USD kickstarter goal 45000 to 49999. With more datapoints in ranges with few points, there may be different results and conclusions.
An analysis of kickstarter play outcomes based on kickstarter goals and an analysis of theater kickstarter outcomes based on kickstarter launch date were conducted. An additional analysis and corresponding graph to include would have been outcomes based on goal and launch date. While the analysis provided is useful, the data could be of further use to visualize which months have the most successful kickstarter plays with a goal of 10000 to 14999 USD, most relevant to the client.
